Add Logfire MCP server documentation (#925)
pydantic/logfire: docs/how-to-guides/mcp-server.md

# Logfire MCP Server

> A [MCP (Model Context Protocol) server](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) that provides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [MCP (Model Context Protocol) server](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) that provides
```

# Logfire MCP Server

> **Logfire** has its own [MCP server](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction), which

Reviewer: Feels like there should be a link to https://github.com/pydantic/logfire-mcp. Note that https://pypi.org/project/logfire-mcp/ doesn't link there either. And there should be a mention of the package. It's just sort of implied below that you're using `uvx logfire-mcp` or otherwise installing `logfire-mcp`. Initially I didn't look closely and thought that command came with the logfire package.

About the docs and the command:

https://logfire.pydantic.dev/-/redirect/latest-project/settings/read-tokens doesn't work well. For me it links to a random project that I was invited to recentlyish but isn't mine and which I haven't looked at in ages. Rather link to the docs about read tokens. Also include that link here.

`--logfire-read-token` is very long for a required argument. I suggest `--token`/`-t` or at least `--read-token`.

> `logfire-mcp: error: Logfire read token must be provided either via --logfire-read-token argument or LOGFIRE_READ_TOKEN environment variable`

this should also link to docs about read tokens.

When I run the command successfully it doesn't say anything so I can't tell if it's working properly. I have to press Ctrl+C three times to make it stop. And doing that makes it look like something bad happened:

```
KeyboardInterrupt
^CException ignored in: <module 'threading' from '/Users/alex/.pyenv/versions/3.12.6/lib/python3.12/threading.py'>
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/alex/.pyenv/versions/3.12.6/lib/python3.12/threading.py", line 1624, in _shutdown
    lock.acquire()
KeyboardInterrupt: 
Fatal Python error: _enter_buffered_busy: could not acquire lock for <_io.BufferedReader name='<stdin>'> at interpreter shutdown, possibly due to daemon threads
Python runtime state: finalizing (tstate=0x0000000100ef1770)

Current thread 0x00000001ea2e8840 (most recent call first):
  <no Python frame>
[1]    1700 abort      logfire-mcp --logfire-read-token 
```

Author: > When I run the command successfully it doesn't say anything so I can't tell if it's working properly. I have to press Ctrl+C three times to make it stop. And doing that makes it look like something bad happened:

I know... That's on the MCP server side. 😞

> you can use on [Claude Desktop](https://www.anthropic.com/news/claude-desktop),

Author: ```suggestion
you can use on [Claude Desktop](https://claude.ai/download),
```

[Cursor](https://www.cursor.com/), and any other software that supports MCP Servers.

## Connect to the MCP server

> Here's how to connect different clients to the MCP server:

Reviewer: The page doesn't tell me what MCP is, what Cursor/Cline/Claude Desktop is, or why I should care about any of this. Opening https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction starts with:

> MCP is an open protocol that standardizes how applications provide context to LLMs. Think of MCP like a USB-C port for AI applications. Just as USB-C provides a standardized way to connect your devices to various peripherals and accessories, MCP provides a standardized way to connect AI models to different data sources and tools.

which doesn't really help. This page is linked at the top of the how-to guides which makes it seem really important so this needs to be clearer. Even someone who knows about MCP and Cursor and uses those things has to guess what this particular server does. Needs to say something like "Let your AI IDE query your logs and find bugs for you".

Reviewer: > Even someone who knows about MCP and Cursor and uses those things has to guess what this particular server does. Needs to say something like "Let your AI IDE query your logs and find bugs for you".

I still think something like this would be good. Maybe just ~copy the first paragraph of https://github.com/pydantic/logfire-mcp to the start of this page.

> ### Cursor

Author: Support is not released yet on PydanticAI tho

> ### Cursor

Reviewer: Understood, would be great to have ASAP.

You can configure Cursor by creating a `.cursor/mcp.json` file in your project root:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "logfire": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": ["logfire-mcp", "--logfire-read-token=YOUR-TOKEN"],
    }
  }
}
```

!!! note
    You need to pass the token via the `--logfire-read-token` flag, because Cursor doesn't
    support the `env` field in the MCP configuration.

For more detailed information, you can check the
[Cursor documentation](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol).

### Claude Desktop

In Claude Desktop, go to Settings → Advanced and add the following MCP configuration:
```json
{

>   "command": ["logfire-mcp"],

Reviewer: This is missing `uvx` or any mention of installation.

  "type": "stdio",
  "env": {
    "LOGFIRE_READ_TOKEN": "your_token"
  }
}
```

Check out the [MCP quickstart](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user)
for more information.

### Cline

> When using [Cline](https://docs.cline.bot/), you can configure the

Reviewer: This says

> Cline Documentation
> Welcome to the Cline documentation - your comprehensive guide to using and extending Cline's capabilities. Here you'll find resources to help you get started, improve your skills, and contribute to the project.

I still don't know what Cline is.
